# Matplotlib Challenge: Pymaceuticals Inc.
This repository contains my work for the 5th challenge of the UofT SCS edX Data Bootcamp.

## Background
Pymaceuticals Inc. is a new pharmaceutical company specializing in anti-cancer medications. As a senior data analyst at the company, I've been given access to the complete data from their most recent animal study to test new potential treatments for skin cancer. In this study, 249 mice who were identified with a tumor received treatment with a range of drug regimens. Over the course of 45 days, tumor development was observed and measured. The purpose of this study was to compare the performance of Pymaceuticals’ drug of interest, Capomulin, against the other treatment regimens.

## Summary
This analysis seeks to provide Pymaceuticals' executive team with the tables and figures needed for a technical report of their clinical study.

The following work was completed:
1. Summary statistics of the mice data, including the mean, median, mode, standard deviation, variance, and SEM.
2. Bar charts plotting the total number of timepoints for mice tested for each drug regimen, using both Pandas and pyplot.
3. Pie charts showing the distribution of female vs male mice, using both Pandas and pyplot.
4. Box plot showing the distribution of the final tumor volume for mice treated with Capomulin, Ramicane, Infubinol, and Ceftamin.
5. Outliers for each of the above drug regimens.
6. Line plot showing the average tumor volume vs time point for a single mouse treated with Capomulin.
7. Scatter plot showing the average tumor volume vs mouse weight for the Capomulin drug regimen.
8. Correlation coefficient and linear regression calculated for the mouse weight and average tumor volume for the Capomulin drug regimen.

## References
This webpage was referenced to help find duplicate mice in the original dataset (line in[6]): https://www.statology.org/pandas-find-duplicates/. 

Data generated by MockarooLinks to an external site., LLC (2022). Realistic Data Generator.
